# DSFW_Peanuts
This repository contains an R script (peanuts.R) for downloading, analyzing, and vizualizing days suitable for fieldwork (DSFW) in 11 peanut producing states.  This script connects directly to source USDA-NASS Quickstats databases via API connection and requires no local data files.  Successfully running this script **requires** an API key from USDA-NASS, further instructions below.

## R Script Info
R version 3.4.2 was used at time of development.

There are two version of the R Script. The peanutsDSFW_2019.R was created in response to a change in the USDA-NASS Quickstats API and to add in additional data that was made available over time from the public data source since publishing the original code.

## Quickstats API Key
Click the link below and follow steps to request USDA-NASS Quickstats API key.  Enter the key in the R script where indicated.

<https://quickstats.nass.usda.gov/api>

## Figures
Figures generated by the R Script for each of the 11 peanut producing states are found in the [Figures](../master/Figures) folder.  Each state has five figures numbered 1-5 identified by what the plot contains and the state name.  

Figure 1 is weekly plot of DSFW by probability distribution at 15%, 50%, and 85%. The probabilites reflect the likelihood of having at least that many days of field work availale each week (Ex: [1DSFWNorth Carolina](../master/Figures/NorthCarolina/1DSFWNORTH%20CAROLINAgraph.png)).

Figure 2 is the weekly progress in completing planting and harvesting field operation. Between 15% and 85% complete is considered "most active" for field work (Ex: [2progressNorth Carolina](../master/Figures/NorthCarolina/2progressNORTH%20CAROLINAgraph.png
)).

Figure 3 is a histogram of the historical number of DSFW available for planting field work (Ex: [3histNorth CarolinaPlanting](../master/Figures/NorthCarolina/3hist4NORTH%20CAROLINAPlanting.png
)).

Figure 4 is a histogram of the historical number of DSFW available for harvesting field work (Ex: [4histNorth CarolinaHarvest](../master/Figures/NorthCarolina/4hist4NORTH%20CAROLINAharvest.png)).

Figure 5 is plot of trend in is total DSFW over time (Ex: [5trendNorth Carolina](../master/Figures/NorthCarolina/5trendNORTH%20CAROLINA.png)).

## Authors
This script was authored by Terry Griffin and his team at Kansas State University ([Meet Terry](https://www.ageconomics.k-state.edu/directory/faculty_directory/griffin/)) and was used to develop a publication co-authored by Jason Ward at NC State University ([Meet Jason](https://www.bae.ncsu.edu/people/jkward2/)).  

The goal is to create R Markdown to associate with this script.  Please check back.
